# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

The SPA and the Express side have very similar arcitectures as I coded them. The both at their core use an MVC pattern. However the SPA is more towards frontend, and navigating from page to page it does not have to refresh it every time, while the backend express does. The backend uses a NoSQL database because it is closer to the way the data is used in this application. The JSON is very easy do deal with because we are using JavaScript. JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. As such JSON and JavaScript are very similar. JSON is derived from JavaScript object literal syntax. The main differencec between the two would include language dependency, JSON is text only, JSON is presented in strings whereas Javascript is presented with objects. There were many instances in the full stack process where I refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies. One of these being converting the code to an MVC architecture. This MVC structure allows the code to be modular, more efficient, and easily expanded upon. The testing process to make sure the SPA is working with the API to GET and PUT the data in the database can be accomplished by using the console, postman, and studio3t. Within the console when you first access the trips page you can see the API doing a GET command to /api/trips. Likewise, when you are adding a trip, you can see a PUT command to api/trips. If you enter Postman, you can visit the trips page and add a desired trip. Visiting the webpage through a browser you should see the addition of the new trip. Within studio3t you can go into the travlr data base and see the new addition that you have made to the database. Endpoints are the different devices that are talking to each other, and it is important that we use methods to secure these endpoints or the data that we pass from one endpoint to another may be tampered with. This can cause many unwanted results, and even complete failure of the business trying to succeed. This course has helped me in reaching my professional goals by giving me an arsenal of tools and information that I understand, and can use at my disposal. This was one of the most professional applications I have developed. I have learned many skills in this class such as coding in HTML, and JavaScript. OIther skills include utilizing tools such as the MEAN stack along with postman, and studio3t. These skills will allow me to more easily acclimate to the professional workplace with respect to web development.
